(intense music)
- [Ruka] Go ahead, they said.
So I opened my eyes.
I was inside the ocean.
(wondrous music)
My mom and I
reached out our hands.
(chuckling)
The fish all followed me,
everywhere I went.
(mysterious music)
These are memories
from when I was little.
(dramatic violin music)
- [Man] Is this the song?
- No.
These whales are singing
in response to the song.
(dolphins clicking)
- [Man] The dolphins are
migrating in response to it.
It's categorically different
from any other whale song.
- [Dehdeh] It's still far, but
it's gradually getting closer.
(waves crashing)
(dramatic music)
From the star, from the stars,
the sea is the mother.
It's finally time.
(dramatic music)
(seagulls cawing)
(gate rumbling)
(heavy breathing)
- [Ruka] Yes!
I'm flying!
(cheering)
- Great shot, Ruka!
You're light on your feet today!
(insect chirping)
- [Ruka] Of course
I'm light on my feet!
Summer break starts today.
In summer,
my whole body feels light.
- [Friend] Nice!
- [Friend] Ruka, great shot!
(laughing)
- Ruka, you're
doing great today!
- Way to go, Ruka!
- Oh, she's gotta be careful
when she's doing this well.
- Huh?
- Oops, my bad.
That's what you
get for showing off.
(whistle blowing)
(groaning)
- What happened, your nose?
Huh?
- Ruka's elbow, it hit
her on that last shot.
- [Girl] I think she
did it on purpose.
- Well, she may
have a broken nose.
Take her to the nurse's office.
(groaning)(sobbing)
- Ruka, you went
too far this time.
- Yeah, I know she tripped
you and all, but still.
- But...
But she...
- [Coach] Ruka!
- She--
- Ruka!
I want to see you
in my office, please.
(fan blowing)
(sighs)
So this is how we're starting
our summer break, is it?
You really enjoy being quite
the troublemaker, don't you?
Teammate, opponent.
How many has it been, huh?
So tell me, why did
you hurt her like that?
Well?
Anything to say?
- Well, she started it.
- So none of this
is your fault, huh?
- [Ruka] That's not
what I meant.
- So, this was all her fault.
All right then.
Well, I need to go check on her.
I might have to
take her to the hospital.
You can go home.
- Okay.
Why didn't you
send me to the nurse too?
- [Coach] Oh, and
one more thing.
If you're not
going to apologize,
no need to come to practice.
(zipper zips)
(heavy breathing)
(train running)
- Today was just the first day,
but now my summer break
is already over.
(somber piano music)
Aw, man!
I can't fly anymore.
(lighthearted music)
(Ruka sighs)
- So, what are you
doing on break?
- Celebrating fun.
- I'm jealous,
I want to go on a trip!
- I'll take care of the
team stuff before I go.
- Sounds like
you're gonna be busy.
- Yeah, it does!
I don't think
my family's going anywhere.
We're just visiting
the family grave.
- Hey, want to go to a movie?
- Totally!
Would love to.
- [Girl] Yeah, me too, I'm in.
- [Girl] Cool, let's go!
(lighthearted music)
- I wonder how badly I hurt her.
But...
(somber piano music)
(Ruka gasps)
It's been so long.
The aquarium.
(dramatic music)
- [Woman] Next up,
Enokura Aquarium.
We will be arriving momentarily.
- Wonder Aquarium!
See the Wonder Aquarium!
Welcome.
Today's the
first day of the exhibit.
- Ready?
- Enjoy!
(chuckling)
Bye bye!
- Thanks a lot.
- Thanks.
- Bye bye!
Can I see it?
- Here you go.
- Oh, thanks.
- Wait, excuse me.
But aren't you
Mr. Azumi's daughter?
- Huh?
Ruka's here?
You recognized her?
- (chuckles) She has your
eyes, so it was easy.
Plus she came here all the time
when she was a little girl.
- Why is she here?
I'm tied up at the moment.
Can you tell her to
come find me?
I'm behind the big tank.
Yeah, thanks.
- Chief, the sardines are here.
- Oh, right.
- I'll show you where they are.
- Your dad said to
meet him at the tank.
I'll show you how to get there.
- [Ruka] Okay.
Thank you.
(laughing)
- [Kid] Wow!
(laughs)
- If you head on in, you'll
be able to find him inside.
Go on.
Hey, be sure to check
out the Wonder Aquarium
on your way out, okay?
- Okay.
Hello?
Dad?
Is anyone in here?
Ow!
(groaning)
(water splashing)
(Ruka yells)
(lighthearted string music)
(chuckling)
What?
Who's there?
(lighthearted string music)
- Ha!
(Ruka gasps)
Is summer break
a vacation in the summer?
(chuckling)
(water splashes)
- What?
Did you just...
Where did he go?
(groaning)
- Huh?
Ruka?
(wondrous music)
(laughing)
He's flying!
(wondrous music)
- My name's Umi.
What's yours?
- Oh, I'm--
- I'm...
Ruka.
You're Ruka?
Ruka!
(wondrous music)
(laughing)
- Pretty crazy, right?
- Oh, Dad.
- That is Umi.
He was raised at sea
by a herd of dugongs.
- Dugongs?
(dramatic music)
My summer break.
My long, long summer
break is about to begin.
Inspiration for mermaids.
This smells like dad.
- Umi was found 10 years ago
off the shores
of the Philippines
traveling with a
herd of dugongs.
Actually, it was him
and another boy.
His skin is extremely
sensitive to dryness,
probably because he's
been living in the ocean.
So, we decided to take
care of him at the aquarium
and do some research.
By the way, any particular
reason you decided
to come out here today?
- It was nothing.
- [Reporter] Entertainment news!
The reason for
the appearance of whales
off Manhattan Island
is still unknown.
Marine specialists are still--
- Oh, so Masaaki left
without coming inside again.
Why'd you go there anyway?
Hey, Ruka!
- I'm heading out.
- The will-o'-the-wisp.
It's coming.
(whistle blows)
- Great shot!
Looking good!
Circle round!
- [Girl] Nice shot!
- Wait, isn't that Ruka?
- Huh?
- Sorry.
I'm sorry.
(groaning)
But it wasn't even my fault.
(dramatic piano music)
(heart beating)
Ow.
Why am I playing
hide and seek at school?
- Ruka!
There you are.
- Umi.
(water running)
- All right, let's go.
- Hm?
Where are we going?
- There's a
will-o'-the-wisp coming.
We're gonna go see it.
- [Ruka] Will-o'-the-wisp?
- Mhm.
I wanted Sora to come with me,
but he can't really
do it right now.
- [Ruka] Who's Sora?
- [Umi] My big brother.
He's in the hospital.
- [Ruka] Oh.
- [Umi] Then I remembered
you, so I came to get you.
- So, what are we seeing?
- These things that
glow and fly.
We'll get to see them together.
(train horn blows)
(lighthearted music)
Hey.
What's this place?
- It's Shrine of Harvest.
- [Umi] And this?
- This is a Chizo statue.
- Hm, I see.
I know what that is!
- Ice cream?
Huh?
- Mm.
(lighthearted music)
So good!
- Why do I have to pay?
Why me?
Why did he come find me?
I wonder if he
asked himself why.
(waves crashing)
Sounds like the waves
are getting bigger.
It'll be dark soon.
Is this thing really coming?
Maybe this was all a joke.
Of course.
That's gotta be it.
Hey, I can't
really be out this late.
- Here it comes.
(Ruka gasps)
(wondrous music)
Another one!
- What were they?
They were so bright,
and big, and amazing!
What were they, comets?
- They're will-o'-the-wisps.
- Or what?
Shooting stars?
Meteorites?
- will-o'-the-wisps.
- I don't even care!
Those things were incredible.
How did you know
they would come?
- Well, it was easy, because
it wanted to be found.
It just told me so.
You saw for
yourself how brightly
it was shining just now.
It was shining
that bright because
it wanted everyone to see it.
Bugs and animals do it too.
They shine because
they want to be found.
(waves crashing)
- Now I see.
Today, when Umi found me
at school, I was so happy.
Hey, do you think
they'll show up again?
And now I understand why.
I wanted someone to find me.
That was amazing.
Thanks for bringing
me here with you, Umi.
(dramatic piano music)
(thunder rumbling)
(rain pouring)
(knocking)
- Sora?
Jim is here to
pick you up, okay?
- Okay.
(rain pouring)
(water running)
(seagull chirping)
- How are they?
- They're having a lot
of trouble concentrating.
- I heard that the seals
were crying last night too.
You know, because of that thing.
- [Woman] The meteorite?
(dolphins splashing)
- [Man] Humpbacks have been seen
over the past
few days in the waters
near the meteorite's crash site.
Jim, it's just as you predicted.
- Well, that's good to hear.
- [Man] We'll send you a
song that we recorded there.
- Please do.
(whales singing)
(lighthearted music)
- [Ruka] Excuse me, sir.
- You're Azumi's
daughter, right?
- That recording just now.
What was it?
- Oh, you're referring
to that song you heard.
- Song?
- You were hearing whales.
They sing songs as they traverse
the oceans of the world.
Sound is able to travel a
great deal farther in water
than it can in air,
so they can sing to each
other across vast distances.
The songs that whales sing
are an exceedingly complex
wave of information.
When we humans express what
we're thinking with words,
we can't convey even half
of what we're feeling.
But whales are able to
communicate with each other
in a deeper way,
directly transmitting their
experiences fully realized.
- Transmitting fully.
(lighthearted music)
They can communicate
without using words.
I wonder if there will
be another one tonight.
(waves crashing)
What's that sound?
Huh?
A person?
Umi?
No.
Is that Sora?
(waves splashing)
It's that sound again.
- It's the sand and rocks.
It's the sound of them
getting hit by all the waves,
though it usually
gets covered up
by the sounds of the
waves themselves.
The edge of the water is
such an eloquent place.
All sorts of
information gathers here,
carried by the ocean waters.
If you're able
to tell them apart,
you can know almost anything.
I assume you're Ruka then?
You know who I am, right?
Yeah, you definitely know.
- Sora, right?
- You are so boring.
Everything you
do is so easy to predict,
you're such a child.
You're here to see Umi, right?
He happens to be
offshore right now,
too bad for you.
- You shouldn't be out here!
'Cause you're sick.
- No, it isn't that I'm sick,
they're just observing me.
You're totally free to
be interested in Umi,
but I have to wonder if he has
any interest at all in you.
You know, he doesn't think
all that much of you--
- I don't care!
I wasn't here to see
Umi, I just wanted the...
A shooting star.
I just wanted to see it again.
- Umi has me already, so you
should see yourself home now.
- [Ruka] I was just about to!
And to be honest,
I don't know what
you're doing here either.
- What is that song?
I can hear a song right now,
it's one that I've
never heard before.
- A song.
You mean the whales?
Earlier, when I
heard the recording,
I saw whales and
those shooting stars
inside my mind.
Also, some kind of celebration.
Something like a baby.
- Oh yeah?
So, what about it?
- Nothing!
- Ah, you're lonely.
I guess you'd like me to
play with you, little girl.
Hm.
(water splashing)
- What a jerk!
I can't believe
that kid's related to Umi.
He's so annoying!
(waves crashing)
Actually, he feels more
like a ghost than a kid.
(waves crashing)
- Oh, weird!
It's just you, Sora?
I felt like Ruka was here too.
- She just left.
(sighs)
You were right about her,
she does have the same smell.
- Mhm.
- Well in that case, I think
we should take a deeper look.
How was it under there?
- There's a bunch
of them gathering.
- Hm.
- So, can you hear it?
- Yeah, I can hear it.
(wondrous music)
- [Dehdeh] From the star,
from the stars,
the sea is the mother.
- Well, based on our findings,
we can conclude that Sora
is definitively human.
His eyeballs with their
specialty light refraction,
his cardiopulmonary
functions, muscles,
and bone density are all
a result of him adapting
to living underwater.
But no elements of luminescence
were found in his
skin structure.
Therefore, it is unlikely
that he would glow.
- Hm?
False killer whales?
(lighthearted synth music)
- Hi, Ruka!
Sorry for the wait.
You sure you want to do this?
- Yes!
- The water temperature
is pretty low.
- You shouldn't be putting
your finger in there,
it's the shark tank.
- Yep, I know!
(laughing)
- Masaaki.
- Uh, he's not here.
Can I help you?
- Oh, hey there, Kanako.
It's been a while.
- Who is this?
- Mr. Azumi's wife.
- [Woman] Oh, Ruka's mom?
- Yeah.
- Mr. Azumi's not here.
He's doing a workshop.
- Is that right?
- Yep.
- And where's Ruka?
- I think Ruka's
somewhere in the building.
- Ugh, okay then.
- Where are you--
- I remember my way
around, I'll go find her.
- That's Kanako.
She's an employee here,
but she's on a leave of absence.
- Oh, yeah.
Someone told me she was
legendary around here.
- Kanako's here and
she's coming this way?
Hey, what are you...
- What's going on?
- My mom's here,
and she's the worst!
- If you want to hide from
her, I've got an idea.
Come on!
(chuckling)
Look, there it is.
- Ah.
- We can hide here,
it's perfect.
Don't worry, the
aquarium owns the ship,
but they'll never think
to look for us here.
Sorry.
(laughing)
(lighthearted music)
- Hey.
Look, it moves.
- All aboard now!
Set sail!
- Huh?
- You've got it.
- Ship setting sail!
(lighthearted music)
- That's amazing.
I didn't know
you could drive a boat.
- Nah, I can't.
- What?
- I was just messing around
and it started moving.
- Wait, are we gonna be okay?
- Watch out, incoming!
- We almost crashed!
- I was pretty sure he'd
be able to dodge us.
- Oh no, the port!
It's so far away.
(dramatic music)
But this feels good.
- Hey, Sora!
Can we take the boat over
to go see some whales?
- Yeah, sounds good.
- Some whales?
(lighthearted music)
- Hey, we stopped!
- Huh?
- It's not responding.
- So we're stuck here?
- Guess so.
- [Ruka] What are we
supposed to do now?
- There's nothing we can do.
Yeah, I don't know.
- What?
What are we going to do?
How are we gonna get back?
- I don't recall you trying
to stop me at any point.
- Huh?
- You were standing right there,
did you ever tell me
to stop or go back?
No, you didn't say anything,
because you were happy.
Don't blame others
for your situation.
(water splashes)
- Because we grew up in the
ocean instead of on land,
we need to keep cool, or our
skill will start to burn,
and we'll have trouble
with our breathing.
My body's more
used to it than Sora's.
But our overall life expectancy
is still pretty short.
- It's short?
- Mhm.
Well, they're doing
research to see
if they can make us live longer.
Huh?
Something's heading this way.
- Huh?
- Come on, let's go see!
(water splashes)
(lighthearted music)
- But...
Isn't the water
really deep here?
Huh?
(lighthearted music)
I can't swim in water this deep.
What am I doing?
(yells)
So deep.
I can't swim in this!
Huh?
(wondrous music)
(heavy breathing)
(dramatic music)
Whale sharks?
Can't hold on...
(coughing)
- Geez.
If you couldn't swim, then
you shouldn't have gotten in!
- I can swim!
- You were drowning!
- That was because--
- Because you couldn't swim.
- Yes, I can!
- How interesting.
It seems they have company.
- You're right.
- Something's wriggling.
A school of fish?
Amazing.
- They're chasing after
that group of whale sharks.
- The whale sharks' patterns,
they were glowing
in the ocean just now.
Just like before.
Like the ghost at the aquarium.
- [Umi] It was glowing?
- Mhm.
When I was little, I saw it.
It glowed and then disappeared.
- We saw the same exact
thing when we were little.
- A ghost?
- Yeah.
And Sora and I have been
calling it that too.
- You saw the same thing?
- What about the song?
- Is that when you
heard the whale song?
When you saw the ghost?
- No, I heard it for the
first time the other day.
Do you guys know what it means?
- It means that there's
gonna be a celebration,
and it's called
the Birth Festival,
somewhere out in the ocean.
- We've been traveling all
over the world with Jim
researching its connection
to the two of us.
The whale song is a clue.
We think they're using the song
to look for guests
for the Birth Festival.
- [Ruka] Guests?
- [Jim] Just looking
at his latest data,
we don't see any
changes in Sora.
- But in reality, he's
weakening much faster
than the data suggests.
Umi, on the other hand,
is adapting well
to being on land.
- Despite their
similar background,
they are quite different.
- And what about
those meteorites?
There's no indication
that they ever reached
the surface of the Earth.
- I guess they burned up.
- Professor Anglade is
headed out to collect them,
and I'm sure
it'll be a fool's errand.
- However, all the
creatures of the sea
are rushing to
that part of the ocean.
And there is that unfamiliar
whale song to consider.
- It's likely that all
of these events
are omens of
the coming Festival.
- Then we have
to hurry, or Sora will...
- What is it?
- Is it here?
- False killer whales!
Sora!
- Huh?
Umi, wait!
Something's glowing.
(wondrous music)
Umi?
Sora?
Come back!
(heavy breathing)
(wondrous music)
- Do you know
how lucky you were?
It's a good thing the
ocean was dead calm today
and another ship happened
to come by and find you.
Are you even listening, Ruka?
What were you even thinking
going out there by yourself?
And you lied to me telling
me you were at practice.
Ruka!
Where have you
been going every day?
To see Masaaki?
- It's none of your business!
(rain pouring)
None of your business.
(waves crashing)
- [Man] Just odd,
it washing up like that.
- How did this happen?
Do you think they
were already dead?
- Excuse me.
Excuse me, please.
Huh?
What?
(rain pouring)
(wind blowing)
What is this?
- Oh, Ruka.
- What is that, Dad?
- Pretty strange, huh?
This is a relative
of the Megamouth.
- Megamouth?
- Uh huh.
It's a type of shark that
lives very deep in the ocean.
And most of the
fish you see here
are also deep sea dwellers.
The question is,
why did this happen?
There are also fish from
the shallows mixed in,
and Sora's still missing.
What a mess.
- Wait, Sora hasn't come back?
- No.
Jim's out looking for him.
- And what about Umi?
Is he okay?
- He seems pretty down.
Probably worried about Sora.
Oh, hey!
A typhoon is coming!
I need you to get home!
(rain pouring)
- A ribbonfish too?
Umi.
Umi!
Umi, get up.
(grunting)
Umi!
Talk to me!
His heart.
(water bubbling)
No!
He's not breathing.
What do I do now?
I don't know how to do CPR.
(groaning)
- Ruka, what were you doing?
- You idiot!
What were you doing
laying underwater?
- It's Sora, I know where he is.
The waves told me!
- The waves?
- This typhoon.
It carries the
ocean air of home,
and the smell of Sora.
- The typhoon?
(wondrous music)
Umi's hand.
It's so hot.
I have to protect him.
- I heard the typhoon
changed directions
and it's now heading towards us.
- First deep sea fish
and now a typhoon?
- Oh, wait, isn't that
Azumi's daughter?
- It's Ruka.
- Hey!
Don't go up to the beach!
It's dangerous!
They don't even
have an umbrella.
(dramatic music)
(rain pouring)
- Okay, but I already told
you, she didn't come here.
Washed away?
No, I don't think so.
Someone in town
saw them walking together.
If I see her, I'll let you know.
Yeah.
Okay, okay, I got it.
Oh, geez, where on Earth
could they have gone
with a typhoon coming here?
- Memories, time, and spirits
pass one another in a typhoon.
It seems time is
running out faster
than I imagined it would.
Much faster.
- Running out?
(lighthearted music)
- Bye bye!
- Are we close?
- Mhm.
This way!
(heavy breathing)
- Hm?
My, my.
So you guys
found him already, huh?
If you're looking for Sora,
he's out for a
swim at the moment.
I found him out in the
middle of the ocean.
That makes me the one
who brought him here.
And it seems you're the
one who brought Umi here,
or perhaps it's more accurate
to say he brought you here,
with the help of
the typhoon, of course.
- [Ruka] Yeah.
- If that's the case,
then you should be careful
when it comes to Umi.
Whatever happens now, you
can't say I didn't warn you.
(chuckling)
Hey!
Don't forget to catch
us something for dinner!
Well, why don't you
make yourself at home?
I'll call Jim and let
him know you're here.
- From the aquarium?
You know him?
- Of course.
I'm an oceanographer who
happens to be Jim's assistant.
Well, I was.
Since we have an
unexpected guest,
I guess I'll take my
summer break now.
- Your summer break?
- [Umi] Ruka!
- Huh?
Sora.
(wondrous piano music)
A dugong.
(laughing)
Amazing.
(water splashing)
(dramatic piano music)
(laughing)
(cheering)
- So, you're saying the Festival
itself is happening soon.
- [Jim] Correct.
- You know the location?
- [Jim] I believe the
boys who came from the sea
will guide us to it.
- If we can observe the Festival
and analyze its mechanism,
it could lead us to incredible
advances in ocean science.
- Interestingly, we've
received some intel
that these boys
you believe are the key
were taken by
your assistant, Anglade.
- He hasn't taken the boys.
He's currently
coordinating with them,
and I am able to
contact him at any time.
- [Man] Without them,
we won't be able to know
when the signs of the
Festival are happening!
- If that's your concern,
then Anglade can be
the one to guide you
when the time comes.
- And you just
expect us to trust him?
- There's no need for trust.
We can track the location of
the ship wherever it goes.
- [Man] Not good enough!
We should mobilize
the fleet now.
- Just wait.
- [Jim] How much
time do we have left?
Is it enough?
Umi, Sora.
- Wow.
The sky and the sea are all red.
- You know, your
eyes are red too.
- Huh?
- Here, look.
(laughing)
- Hey, guys!
Did you catch anything yet?
It's about time to
cook up some dinner!
- Oh, I'm on it.
- It's not just the twilight sky
that is making the sea look red.
See that?
- [Ruka] What is it?
- You'll find out
once night falls.
- Caught something!
Look at this.
(lighthearted music)
(chuckling)
- Hey.
(lighthearted music)
(humming)
- [Anglade] Let's dig in.
(gasping)
(slurping)
- Mm!
- How are you, Sora?
Did you have a good swim?
- Not too bad.
Although I feel my body
gets worse every time
they collect more data.
Where did we come from
and where are we heading?
To find that out,
I've gone through
all their exams and experiments,
but neither the
X-rays nor the MRIs
have shown any
signs of abnormalities.
Even though it
feels like my body
has somehow been transformed.
Strictly speaking from a
scientific point of view,
what's happening
inside me can't be seen.
- The amount that
humans are able to see
is only a small
fraction of everything
that exists in this world.
Using advanced technologies,
humans continue to
observe the Universe
only to discover that there
is a thing called dark matter
that cannot be observed
by any known methods.
And the sum of
its substance is at least
10 times that of normal matter.
That means that over 90%
of the Universe's mass
is made up of it, yet
it remains a mystery.
- So, almost all of it is?
- Mhm.
It's like we're not
seeing anything at all.
The Universe is filled with
something we cannot see,
which means it's much
more vast and complex
than what our eyes can perceive.
- I think that the Universe
is a lot like humans.
- Hm.
- Tiny fragments of
memories are floating around
inside each person,
dispersed and severed,
until by some chance,
several memories
become connected to each other,
and then that memory
grows a little bigger,
and then the larger
memory draws in
more fragments of memories,
and they connect and merge
into an even
bigger one, ever growing.
And that process is what we call
thinking or feeling, right?
And that's just like--
- Yes, that's right.
The process you
described is just like
how a star or galaxy is born.
Amazing.
- The Universe.
And people.
(mysterious music)
(waves crashing)
Where are Sora and Anglade?
Umi, you okay?
You're burning up.
(groaning)
Please be okay.
I remember when I was little,
what my mom did to comfort me.
Hush, hush, go to sleep
Rest, my little one
I just adore you
More than anyone
I forget the rest.
(waves crashing)
Anglade's yacht is gone.
Wow.
The water's glowing.
- Sea sparkle.
- Oh, Sora.
- They're known as sea sparkle.
- Sea sparkle?
- It's because of them that
the sea was red at sundown.
- Oh.
- They're a kind of plankton.
They glow when they're agitated.
- Amazing.
They can make a
red sea glow blue.
Oh!
Sora, what are you...
(water splashing)
(wondrous music)
- Now pay attention.
Water organizes
itself into pockets.
If you can find the pockets,
swimming becomes easy.
- Beautiful.
I wonder if I can do that.
(Ruka gasps)
(dramatic music)
Wow.
It's almost like...
We could swim.
It's almost like we could
swim all the way to the stars.
- It's like the Milky Way
is above us and below us.
- [Dehdeh] And tomorrow's
the new moon.
- It feels like
it's cradling all life.
- [Dehdeh] The whole ocean is
orbiting around this meteorite
that is believed
to have burned up.
What do you make of that?
- Perhaps this world we live
in is all merely a dream.
It was breathed into life
by the countless shellfish
in the depths of the ocean.
- What about Umi
and Sora, their origin?
Where did they come from?
- Who are they, really?
- And where are they headed?
The same questions
apply to all of us.
- There's little doubt
that those two boys
see the world in a completely
different way than we do.
Their perspective
is through the lens
of a different place and time.
- [Dehdeh] It's a world
that the two of them share,
but we couldn't
even begin to imagine.
- And yet here we are, they
have appeared right before us.
- Well, there's at least
one thing we can do for them
and that's not to impede
the natural course
of their journey.
If you're truly
invested in them,
vow to protect them from those
who think they know better.
- It seems it's almost time
for the Festival to begin.
- Indeed, it is.
And the main guest
has been chosen.
- Don't worry.
Umi's body is just
restructuring itself.
I did it too, and soon
it will happen again
when the time finally comes.
(dramatic piano music)
- It's so beautiful.
Things glow because
they want to be found.
Umi taught me that, but
their beautiful light
somehow makes them seem lonely.
Maybe sad is the right word.
Maybe because they'll
eventually disappear.
Yet despite that,
they shine anyway.
Just something
that crossed my mind,
don't pay any attention to me.
Wait, what did I just swallow?
- The meteorite.
I've decided to
entrust it to you.
(dramatic music)
Remember, if ever
there comes a time
when that stone is
needed to save Umi,
you must reach into your
stomach and give it to him.
(dramatic music)
- Huh?
What's happening?
Sora?
(dramatic music)
- It seems...
I really am out of time.
- Sora!
- I thought it would happen
on the night of the full moon.
Both Jim and
Anglade miscalculated.
Remember what you're seeing.
It will help you when
it's time for Umi to--
- Sora, wait!
- The dugongs from today,
maybe they came to collect me.
It's much sooner than expected.
It's too soon.
(water splashes)
- Sora!
(dramatic music)
It's that noise again!
What's happening?
(screaming)
(dramatic music)
(laughing)
- Yay!
I want to see a dolphin!
Is it gonna jump, daddy?
Who's that?
- I'm starting to
wonder if Umi's
completely forgotten
how to speak.
- It's possible.
I mean, he hasn't
since he got back.
- All right,
show's starting soon,
time to get out.
(cheering)
(dolphin squawking)
(ominous music)
- Well, at least she's back
home safe and sound now.
- [Kanako] That's all
you have to say?
- I didn't mean for it
to come out like that.
- [Kanako] It's fine,
it's just what I expected.
I get it, Ruka doesn't want
to stay at home with me
because I'm a drunk.
You two are similar in that way.
- It's you and Ruka who
are just like each other.
Both of you want people to
know how you're feeling,
but you don't
know how to express it
so you get frustrated
and lash out at everyone.
That makes navigating
through life complicated.
Now I understand.
Back then, I didn't
know what to do
or how to help you, I guess.
Uh...
- Since we're being
honest, you are too.
- Maybe I haven't done my best,
but I want to make things right
if you'll give me the chance.
I think we belong together,
living under the
same roof as a family.
(somber piano music)
- Ah, Jim.
You're finally here.
- Yeah.
- Unfortunately, we
didn't make it in time.
Sora is already gone.
Out on the ocean
I heard the sound
traveling through the water.
698.45 hertz, the sound
a star makes when dying.
And then, by the time
I got back to shore,
I found Umi with a fever
and Ruka lying
catatonic on the beach.
- [Jim] So, you
think Sora's dead?
- I don't know.
Could be the Festival of
that Dehdeh they spoke of.
- Either way, you're
saying that in the end
there was nothing we
could've done for him.
- Hm.
(dramatic piano music)
What's strange is that I can
still sense Sora's presence.
I need to see
further into the stars.
(intense music)
- [Woman] Step forward,
make some room!
(laughing)
(drum music)
- [Sora] Ruka.
(sniffing)
(Ruka gasps)
(intense music)
(groaning)
- [Ruka] Somewhere
deep inside me,
a whirlpool is coiling.
- Why are they doing that?
(dramatic music)
What's going on?
- [Woman] Is there
something out in the ocean?
- [Woman] What is that, a whale?
- [Woman] What is that?
- Chief, there's a
whale outside!
- A whale?
(dramatic music)
(water splashes)
- Whoa.
- It's a humpback!
(wondrous music)
- Both of you have eyes
connected to a world
far beyond this place.
- You're right.
That's why I need
to get out there.
- Lucky for you, I'm
a shepherd of the sea.
Hop aboard.
Ah, great wind.
Great currents too.
We have a good chance of
catching up to that whale.
- This whale song, I heard it.
- It's searching for its guest
while singing the
song of the stars.
- The song of the stars.
- From the star, from the stars.
The sea is the mother.
- Gather every star you can
and drop them in the sea,
the waves gently
rock them back to sleep.
I remember the lyrics that
I had forgotten before.
It's from that lullaby my
mom used to sing to me.
(string strumming)
The winds sing along with you.
- The whales sing the
song of the stars,
and the wind carries the
memories of the ocean.
We've taken the messages
from those memories
and passed them down
through songs and poems.
But words are only able
to capture a fraction
of the language of the
wind, just like a sail.
This instrument is a way
to talk with the wind
and the memories of the ocean,
and the feelings
we cannot express.
(string strumming)
- [Ruka] I hear a small voice
being carried along
with the wind.
These memories come to us
when we least expect it.
Memories of someone's life,
of their past and future.
(somber flute music)
- A school of
false killer whales.
Their destination must
be the same as ours,
that is good news.
(gasps)
- [Ruka] Huh?
Why did I jump in?
I lost track of Umi.
(wondrous music)
(whale screeching)
What?
What are you trying to tell me?
(whale screeching)
I know everything
Sora is feeling
because I can feel it too.
(whales screeching)
(wondrous music)
(water splashing)
(heavy breathing)
(mysterious music)
- [Umi] Ruka,
the song is coming!
- [Ruka] Umi?
- [Umi] It's coming
straight at you!
(whale singing)
(screaming)
- Amazing.
I've never heard the
song this loud before.
The whole ocean.
The entire ocean has
begun gathering together.
(wondrous music)
- Surely this is an
excessive amount of security.
- It's nothing more
than our usual protocol.
- The target destination
veers quite far
from our predictions.
- I understand,
but I assure you,
it is the center of the Festival
where all the answers
will be revealed.
- [Man] Then well done, Jim.
Looks like we'll have the
best seats in the house.
- Best of luck to you all.
But I'll be taking
my own route there.
Now, I wonder if there's
anything else left
that I can do for them.
I just wish I could've
bought them more time.
It's why we started testing
them in the first place,
but then things got out of
hand with the experiments,
and those children
ended up becoming
the victims in the process.
- Dehdeh told me that if
I cared for the children
I had to protect them
from those who
thought they knew better,
those people who
believe that humans
are superior to everything else.
- I'm not sure, but I hope
this is enough to protect them.
- Jim!
Umi and Ruka are missing.
You know where
they are, don't you?
You have to take
us to them, please.
- You have to take us to her.
Hm.
- Little fish.
Hey, hey.
Your home is that way.
Hm?
Of course.
Creatures of the sea
can't survive here.
Ah, ah!
Umi, are you okay?
Umi, hey!
We have to get you
back in the water.
Wait.
Which world does Umi belong in?
(waves crashing)
(Ruka gasps)
Umi?
Where are you?
(wondrous music)
(haunting music)
(Ruka gasps)
What are you?
This creature, it's
been here all alone
for a very long time.
You've been watching.
Incredible.
Even down here in
this dark, sunken place,
life still exists.
All the memories from every
creature in the sea are here.
(whale clicking)
(water bubbling)
(coughing)
Sora?
- Ruka, your role
in this is now over.
You did well.
- My role?
- Yes.
The meteorite has awakened.
- And what happens when
the meteorite awakens?
- It becomes the eye of
a tremendous whirlpool.
You can stick around
if you want to see it,
although I'm not quite sure
you're gonna be able to
handle what comes next.
- You look like Sora,
but you're not
really Sora, are you?
- Like I told you before,
all memories
converge in the meteorite.
This memory is taken from
someone you've known,
it's one of your memories.
It's part of the meteorite,
and it's part of you.
Now, it's time
to close your eyes.
Slowly and gently.
Good girl.
Sky and ocean align to mark
the beginning of the Festival.
Sing now, sing of
the joy of being born.
This is your lullaby.
Can you hear it?
The song has begun.
The Universe and
all its creatures
are singing in unison.
- You're being so mean.
- The Universe is a
life form unto itself.
The planets with
oceans are its womb,
and meteorites
provide the sperm,
the Festival of Conception.
For generations, we have
witnessed the ritual
and sang the songs of its tale.
From the star, from the
stars, the sea is the mother.
And now the song continues.
The people are her bosom,
heaven is the playground,
and now the Festival begins.
Finally.
- [Ruka] I want to see!
(dramatic music)
I see it.
Am I the Universe?
(dramatic music)
Hush, hush go to sleep
- [Ruka] This lullaby.
Rest, my little one
- [Ruka] It was mom's song.
I just adore you
More than anyone
- [Ruka] She...
She lives inside me.
(dramatic music)
(calming music)
Umi?
Umi!
(dramatic piano music)
Umi.
(groaning)
(dramatic music)
Umi.
No, don't!
You can't!
Umi!
(dramatic music)
- [Umi] They shine because
they want to be found.
- That's Umi's light.
(baby crying)
(dramatic music)
(water splashes)
Umi!
Umi?
No, please.
Where are you?
(calming toy box music)
- Good and evil.
The Universe is held together
by balancing opposing forces.
Indeed, all things
can be observed
from one of two perspectives.
Just like the lifeforms from
the land and sea are different.
No, actually they're the same.
At the basic
level, all lifeforms
are made of the same matter.
Matter that came
from outer space.
Every one of us is
comprised of it.
So, outer space and
humanity are similar.
Actually, if we're made
from the same substance,
then we're not just similar,
we're exactly alike.
The Sun, the sea, humanity,
Sora, and Umi, and me.
Every single living
thing here on Earth.
If we went into outer space,
it would look
just like the ocean.
(haunting ambient music)
- Umi!
Wait.
Did you just say goodbye?
Umi, no!
Where are you going?
(dramatic music)
Wait!
Umi!
Umi, no!
Wait!
Take me with you.
(dramatic music)
I want...
I want to be with you!
Forever!
(dramatic music)
(sobbing)
- Ruka!
Ruka!
- Ruka, hold onto me!
Here.
We've got you.
- Ruka?
Ruka?
(seagull squawking)
- [Man] Move it!
- Come on, let's go!
- Got it.
(cats snarling)
- Aw, great.
Good bounty today.
The seas were good to us.
(string strumming)
- I think I was probably
just about your age
when I also met a beautiful boy
who came from the sea.
The children of the sea quietly
appear before us one day,
and whisper the
stories of their truth.
The stories about
where we came from
and where we are going,
and the reason we exist.
The clues we get to unlock
the secrets of the world
are revealed in many forms.
The goddess of the whale,
boys who slip through time.
They reach out to us, touching
us with their messages
traveling on the wind.
The Universe exists
everywhere in disguise
right in front of us.
Even a small story that fits
in the palm of your hand.
- My own...
My own story.
(fan spinning)
I didn't...
I don't understand anything.
I just want to see
them one more time.
I wanted to ask...
Why me?
I'm not worthy.
(sobbing)
- You're perfect
just as you are.
You must have
faith in Umi and Sora,
but most
importantly in yourself.
(lighthearted music)
(seagulls cawing)
(ball bouncing)
- The sky and the sea.
They're both here.
And that's everything that
happened on my summer break.
(baby crying)
- Can you come over here
and cut the umbilical cord?
- I asked them if you'd
let them cut it for me.
- Huh?
(baby crying)
- [Nurse] Here.
(waves crashing)
(baby crying)
(scissor snips)
- [Ruka] I could feel the
sensation of cutting off a life.
Hey, Mom?
- Yeah, what is it?
- Do you remember that lullaby
you used to sing to me?
I was wondering
if you learned it
from your mom singing it to you.
- Huh?
Oh yeah, that's right.
Your grandmother used to
sing it to me all the time
back when I was a little
girl in the village.
What made you ask me that?
- Oh, no reason.
Hush, hush, go to sleep
Rest, my little one
Little fishies of the deep
This is your bedtime song
Drink your milk
and grow so tall
Just standing where you are
Then one day
you'll reach the skies
And soar among the stars
Gather every star you can
And drop them in the sea
We're connected to a
place deep inside us,
all the time.
(wondrous music)
And the most important
promises we make
aren't made with words.
(wondrous music)